

"This first stage, and its props
Call upon actors, paper people
Playing their parts: primate particles
Whose collision is immeasurably inevitable,
And inevitability immeasurable, swinging on [5]
The branches of The Tree 
That roots all there is, 
All there was, all that’ll be,
To me; Sing and dance, my children, 
Praise be, Praise me, So I [10]
May cast you to new wombs
Where from ape emerge paper people: 
Born anew, different hue, askew
To the ground, vertical and voracious,
Foraging existence with meaning, [15]
Hunting prey with weapons,
Whose death gathers mourning -
An ape! An ape! A planet for two 
Apes to become the first paper people!
Hearing his words, the animals sang [20]
Songs of praise, prodding the apes 
To choose among them the two who’d
Birth the new apex race, the chosen seed
To farm His garden; to which the apes 
Replied,“What Maiker asks favours [25]
Of His progeny, and on our First Day?”
“Hush”, trumpeted the elephants,
“Bite your tongue”, roared the lions,
“You know no respect”, hissed the snakes, 
“No, but we have pride”, retorted the apes. [30] 
Pride? The Maiker cried, creating rain,  
Pride? The Maiker laughed, creating wind, 
Pride? The Maiker growled, creating fire,
Pride? The Maiker stomped, creating an earthquake, 
Thus His vanity-world came to suffering [35]
And misery wrought by the elements. 
What say you now to pride? 
And the terrified apes replied thus:
“What kind of Maiker punishes 
His progeny for reason, [40]
And on our First Day?”
“Stop reasoning!”, trumpeted the elephants,
“Reasoning is for The Maiker!”, roared the lions,
“Reasoning is death!”, hissed the snakes,
“Then you will all die fools”, [45]
The apes in unison, retorted.
Reason? The Maiker hurled the ocean,
Coupled water and wind, creating cyclones.
Reason? The Maiker tore the earth asunder,
Coupled rock with fire, creating volcanoes. [50]  
What say you now to reason?
But before the apes could reply, 
He deprived every soul of speech, 
And the new world became a horror-filled din:
Panic shrieks, trumpeting, grunting, hissing [55]
As the animals came to muteness 
From this, The First Day, to their last, 
And thus, from that moment The Maiker 
Hearing no more hymns for Him, 
Became vengeance, spitting apocalypse [60]
Towards the insolent apes, 
Tearing apart their great family
Shattering it like glass into countless tribes;
And The Maiker roared,
May My Begotten never question [65]
The grace of their Author,
The Maiker, though most merciful I am.
Am I? Am I mercy? Am I grace? 
This play-planet - an amusement to ward away 
Thoughts of you, dearest – already [70] 
Weighs on my conscious like other celestial chores;
Perhaps fitting for I created this garden,  
Now a graveyard, on the facade of 
Perfection you cloaked yourself in 
When first we met eons ago. Was that happenstance? [75]
Or was it design by an Author 
For whom we are His begotten,
His paper-gods? Is He relishing my lunacy? 
Or is He, like me, lost to the madness 
Of vanity-world-building? And what of you? [80]
Have the pagans on that third planet
Imagined you a tree, a mighty mahogany 
On the island where butterflies 
Build empires on mountain tops? 
Or have they anthropomorphized you, [85]
To a dainty, bejewelled Goddess,
Wearing human garb, brandishing weapons
Or musical instruments in Her hands? 
Is worship you seek from those 
Who profess eternal, undying love for you? [90]
Must I ritualize myself in fire,
And abluere in waters, while reciting 
These verses before you answer me? 
Or is it sacrifice of blood and bone you need? 
Then sacrifice you will have; [95]
The Maiker plucked the first
Children of the Apes, flung
The boy-apes into the volcanoes
The girl-apes into cyclones, 
And said He, Let their tormented [100]
Cries chorus mine across space and time. 

      The boy-apes, flung into
Pits of lava, clung to whatever unmelted 
Rock that provided safe refuge from the 
Burning lake. Having no memory of [105]
Fire and heat and the death it brings to 
Those who take it lightly, their curiosity
Overtaking self-preservation, touched the 
Lava, vaporizing entire limbs and scorching
Seeds of curiosity in their blood forevermore; [110]
Deprived of speech, the boy-apes secreted danger 
To their brothers; while the girl-apes, drenched
In water and discarded by the wind, clinging 
To trees on infant islets, shivering and, having no memory of
Death that lurks in oceans, dipped their hands [115]
Into the eye of the vortex, 
Where a water monster with jaws, 
As wide as the shoulders of their fathers,
Feasted on their primal limbs, 
Diluting curiosity in their blood forevermore; [120]
Deprived of speech, the girl-apes gestured danger
To their sisters; and thus the ape-people came to the 
Tongue-less speech that made them one, 
Whole again, mute to His eavesdropping and interpretation, 
No longer to be fractured by the drunken violence 
Of Gods with mortal minds; [125]
This omniunity borne from fire and storm, 
Etched primal blasphemy in the bloodline of apes forevermore. 
	
	The Maiker gazing upon His design, 
Now half burning, the other drowned in pestilential flood, 
Cried, If the sentence I passed be too cruel, [130]
Let no one who abhor cruelty engage in creation, 
For in anointing Myself Maiker, I must be
Judge and juror also, and in lieu of executioner, 
I am justified this cruelty. 
Just is I. [135] 
But am I compassionate?
I too long to possess the compassion 
That possesses you to benevolence 
And empathy towards the lot of lesser
Mortal beings who worship you, [140] 
Yet talk of me as an ill omen
To their best ambitions - 
Oh this accursed omniscience,
Weighs on me; another celestial day, 
Another divine burden that tempers my mind [145] 
To sins that come to the restless -
This consternation seems my destiny, 
For Gods too are destined; some towards
Greatness while others, like me, are 
Vapid vanity made divine and eternal. [150] 
He chose to slumber under The Great Tree, 
Now no more populous with His creolization, 
Provided undisturbed shade from His own
Tears. The ape-people, in the meanwhile, 
Learnt to scale walls and breathe under water,[155]
Neither singed hands nor wet lungs able to slow 
Their ascent from temperate land-locked playthings,
Hanging on branches, to primal primate, 
The First to erect their stand against the elements, 
The First of Their Bloodline, [160]
No more to walk His garden on all fours, 
Kissing the dust of His step, 
Head bowed in supplication, 
Their Id, currency for His Ego 
No more thought the ape-people; [165]
Thus they came out of volcanoes and 
oceans, born again and born anew, 
On the same day they were birthed by The Maiker -
No more owing debt for favours never asked; 
With eyes and limbs, with scent and strange sounds [170]
From the pits of their being, they chorused 
“No more”, under the full moon light,
So brothers could hear sisters and sisters their 
brothers; instead, their calls were responded
By howling wolves and roaring cats."



